To calculate customer acquisition cost, or CAC,
you must know the amount of money spent acquiring new customers.
Any money spent on marketing, engaging,
or otherwise acquiring and activating a user, is summed up.
Then, divided by the number of paying customers you've achieved.
Tracking CAC as a KPI can show whether
the marketing efforts of your product are worth the cost.
If two marketing methods both generate 100 paying customers,
but one marketing channel costs more, for example,
then the less expensive marketing channel will have a lower and better CAC.
In addition to marketing expenses, investing resources,
and development time into onboarding demos and free trial versions of a product,
contribute to the customer acquisition costs.
As a product manager,
considering the CAC and comparing it to the lifetime value of an average customer,
helps determine whether additional investment in
the acquisition and activation part of the funnel,
will result in enough revenue to provide a return on investment.
Every customer will generate a certain amount of revenue in their lifetime.
Some may pay nothing, and others,
especially in B2B products,
maybe whales that produce millions in revenue a year.
When a new customer begins their journey however,
we don't know what their lifetime value will be to the company.
In order to make decisions about whether a product is on the path to profitability,
product leaders calculate and use the lifetime value of an average customer today.
To calculate the lifetime value of an average customer,
or LTV, you must know the average amount spent per customer in a given time period.
That is, the average value of the sales multiplied by
the average number of transaction for customers in a time period,
and multiply that by how long the average customer is retained.
This number will tell you on
average how much revenue one customer can be expected to generate.
Please note, we are calculating the LTV of an average customer.
A specific customer might have a higher or lower lifetime value.
LTV is often compared to the customer acquisition cost.
If you spend a lot of money to acquire each new customer,
that investment may not be worth it.
Additionally, calculating LTV draws attention to
the levers that a product manager can focus on to increase revenue.
If the average value of a sale is low,
then increasing the price that customers pay could raise LTV,
but not if raising costs reduces the number of transactions.
If the average value of a sale is lower,
customers will need to make many purchases or stick around for
a long time for that lifetime value of an average customer to be high.
Depending on the product and its business model,
the best way to raise the lifetime value of an average customer might
be to raise prices and upsell more expensive packages.
That is, raise average value might be to increase the number of purchases, ie,
raise the average number of transactions,
or might be to provide features that keep users
around for a longer period, ie, increase retention.
By keeping an eye on LTV,
we can determine if a new feature might be worth the development time and investment.
As average customer lifetime value goes up,
we know our product is valuable to customers,
and that value is being monetized.